http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/%7Ethc/AU-10K.html
3
<html> <head>
<title>Algorthms Unlocked: The 10,000th book published by MIT Press</title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Algorthms Unlocked: The 10,000th book published by MIT Press</h1>

Hi to all,

<p>

The arrival of spring brings us a major milestone: we just logged into
our book archive the ten-thousandth book published by the MIT Press!

<p>
 
Book #10,000 is <i>Algorithms Unlocked</i> by Thomas H. Cormen.
Professor Cormen (Dartmouth) has written an engaging guide to the
basics of computer algorithms for the general reader.  Algorithms are
all around us and this book uses real-life examples, good humor, and
only a minimum of mathematics to explain what they are and what they
do.

<p>
 
Tom Cormen is no stranger to publishing milestones.  He is the
co-author with Ronald Rivest and Charles Leiserson (both at MIT) and
Clifford Stein (Columbia), of <i>Introduction to Algorithms</i>, the
leading college textbook in this field and a perennial MIT Press
bestseller.  Cormen and his co-authors recently celebrated achieving
lifetime sales of more than 500,000 copies of their textbook.  (Our
textbook!)

<p>
 
We are publishing <i>Algorithms Unlocked</i> as an original paperback;
its official publication date is April 22, 2013.  The MIT Press team
for the title includes Marie Lee (with thanks to Jim DeWolf), Marc
Lowenthal, Ginny Crossman, Yasuyo Iguchi, Molly Seamans, Janet Rossi,
and Colleen Lanick.

<p>
 
The word "unlocked" in book #10,000's title serves to remind us of all
the knowledge that has been unlocked by the MIT Press since book #1
was archived in 1926.  More significant than turning over a round
number on the locked library odometer is the opportunity to pause for
reflection on the quality of the titles now in our archive and the
contributions they have made to scholarship.  These result from the
dedicated efforts of the MIT Press authors and staff, both past and
present.

<p>
 
Ellen

<p>

-----------------------------<br>
Ellen W. Faran<br>
Director<br>
The MIT Press<br>
55 Hayward Street<br>
Cambridge MA 02142<br>
ewfaran@mit.edu<br>
617-253-4078<br>
http://mitpress.mit.edu

</body> </html>
